BLOG_CONTENT_GUIDELINES.md, before:

# Content Guidelines for Decision Records

This document defines content creation standards for the Decision Records website. Follow these guidelines when creating blog posts, marketing pages, and educational content.

## Core Principle: Glanceable by Default

Most readers do not read entire articles. They scan to find details relevant to them or details the writer signals as important. Design all content for glanceability first, depth second.

## Typography Standards

### Headings (H2, H3)
- **Purpose**: Entry points for scanning readers
- **Style**: Sentence case (not all lowercase, not ALL CAPS for full headings)
- **Length**: 3-8 words, clear and specific
- **Font weight**: 600 (semi-bold) minimum
- **Spacing**: Generous whitespace above headings (2-2.5em margin-top)

### Body Text
- **Font size**: 1.05rem minimum (16.8px base)
- **Line height**: 1.7 ratio for comfortable reading
- **Line length**: 65-75 characters max (700px container)
- **Paragraph length**: 3-4 sentences maximum
- **Font family**: System sans-serif stack for optimal rendering

### Key Phrases & Takeaways
- Use **bold** for scannable key phrases within paragraphs
- Bold the most important 2-3 words that convey the paragraph's core message
- Readers scanning should be able to understand the gist from bold text alone

### Lists
- Prefer bulleted lists over dense paragraphs
- Each list item: one idea, one line when possible
- Use lists to break up any sequence of 3+ related items

## Content Structure

### Article Opening (First 2 Paragraphs)
- State the problem or question immediately
- No lengthy introductions or background
- Reader should know within 10 seconds if this article is relevant to them

### Section Design
- Each H2 section should be independently valuable
- A reader who jumps to any H2 should understand that section without reading prior content
- End sections with a clear takeaway or transition

### Visual Hierarchy for Scanning
```
H1: Article Title (one per page)
├── Lead paragraph (larger font, 1.2rem)
├── H2: Major Section
│   ├── Short paragraph with **key phrase** bolded
│   ├── Bullet list of supporting points
│   └── Transition sentence
├── H2: Next Section
│   └── ...
└── Conclusion with bold summary statement
```

### Pull Quotes / Blockquotes
- Use for single-sentence insights worth highlighting
- Should make sense out of context
- Style: left border, subtle background, italic

## Code & Markdown Formatting

Blog posts support three types of code formatting, each with distinct visual styling:

### Inline Code
Use for short references within text (file names, commands, variable names).

```html
<p>Run <code>claude mcp list</code> to verify the connection.</p>
<p>Add this to your <code>CLAUDE.md</code> file.</p>
```

**Styling**: Light blue background (#f1f5f9), blue text (#1e40af), rounded corners.

### Terminal/Command Blocks
Use for shell commands, CLI instructions, or any code the user runs in a terminal.

```html
<pre class="code-block"><code>claude mcp add decision-records https://decisionrecords.org/api/mcp \
  -t http -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_API_KEY"</code></pre>
```

**Styling**: Dark background (#1e293b), light text, "Terminal" label in top-right corner.

### Markdown Content Blocks
Use for copy-paste content intended for .md files (CLAUDE.md, README.md, etc.).

```html
<pre class="markdown-block"><code>## Architecture Decision Records (ADRs)

This project uses Decision Records to track architecture decisions.

### When to Create a Decision

- Making a significant technical choice
- Changing existing architecture
- Establishing team conventions</code></pre>
```

**Styling**: Light background (#f8fafc), blue left border, "CLAUDE.md" label in top-right corner.

### When to Use Each Type

| Content Type | Class | Example |
|-------------|-------|---------|
| File names, short commands | `<code>` (inline) | `CLAUDE.md`, `npm install` |
| Terminal commands to execute | `<pre class="code-block">` | Installation commands, CLI usage |
| Markdown to copy into a file | `<pre class="markdown-block">` | CLAUDE.md templates, README sections |
| Code snippets (JS, Python, etc.) | `<pre class="code-block">` | Function examples, API usage |

### Escaping Special Characters

In HTML content strings, escape:
- Backslashes: `\\` → `\\\\`
- Backticks inside markdown blocks: Use HTML entity or escape
- Quotes: Use opposite quote type or escape

## Glanceability Checklist

Before publishing any content, verify:

- [ ] Can a reader understand the main point by reading only the title and H2 headings?
- [ ] Are the most important phrases in each paragraph bolded?
- [ ] Is there a clear visual hierarchy (title > headings > body)?
- [ ] Are paragraphs short enough to not feel like walls of text?
- [ ] Would a 30-second scan give the reader value?

## Visual Content Standards

### Placeholder Images (SVG)
Create abstract, conceptual illustrations that:
- Use the brand color palette (#2563EB blue, slate grays #64748B, #94A3B8)
- Convey the article theme without being literal
- Include geometric shapes: rounded rectangles, circles, simple paths
- Suggest people/collaboration through abstract silhouettes
- Maintain clean, minimal aesthetic (no gradients, no heavy detail)

### Image Dimensions
- Blog list thumbnails: 800x500 (16:10 aspect ratio)
- Hero images: 800x400 or full-width responsive

### Color Palette for Illustrations
```
Primary:    #2563EB (blue)
Secondary:  #1E40AF (dark blue)
Accent:     #60A5FA (light blue)
Grays:      #64748B, #94A3B8, #CBD5E1, #E2E8F0
Background: #F8FAFC
Success:    #4ADE80, #16A34A
Warning:    #F59E0B, #FBBF24
Error:      #F87171, #DC2626
```

## Tone & Voice

### What We Sound Like
- **Direct**: State the point, then elaborate
- **Confident but not arrogant**: We have opinions backed by reasoning
- **Practical**: Focus on what readers can do, not abstract theory
- **Respectful of reader time**: Every sentence earns its place

### What We Avoid
- Marketing superlatives ("revolutionary", "game-changing")
- Filler phrases ("It's worth noting that...", "As you may know...")
- Excessive hedging ("might", "perhaps", "in some cases")
- Jargon without explanation

### Example Transformations

❌ "It's important to understand that decision documentation can potentially help teams in various ways."

✅ "**Decision documentation helps teams** communicate faster and onboard new members without meetings."

---

❌ "In many cases, organizations find that..."

✅ "Organizations lose decision context when..."

## Blog Post Template

```markdown
# [Clear, Specific Title as a Question or Statement]

[Lead paragraph - 2-3 sentences stating the core problem or insight. Larger font.]

## [First H2 - The Setup/Problem]

[2-3 short paragraphs with **key phrases bolded**]

## [Second H2 - The Insight]

[Explanation with bullet points where appropriate]

- Point one
- Point two
- Point three

## [Third H2 - The Practical Application]

[Actionable content - what can the reader do?]

## [Final H2 - Conclusion/Call to Action]

[One paragraph summary. **Bold the main takeaway.**]
```

## Adding a New Blog Post

Blog posts are automatically seeded to the database on app startup. Add posts to the source files and deploy—no manual scripts required.

### Step 1: Add Post Content to Angular Component

Add the post to the `posts` array in `frontend/src/app/components/blog/blog-post/blog-post.component.ts`:

```typescript
{
  slug: 'your-post-slug',
  title: 'Your Post Title',
  excerpt: 'A 1-2 sentence description for the blog list.',
  author: 'Decision Records',
  date: 'January 2025',
  readTime: '5 min read',
  image: '/assets/blog/your-image.svg',
  category: 'Documentation',
  metaDescription: 'SEO description (150-160 characters).',
  content: `
    <p class="lead">Lead paragraph with <strong>key insight</strong>.</p>

    <h2>Section Heading</h2>
    <p>Content with proper formatting...</p>

    <pre class="code-block"><code>terminal commands here</code></pre>

    <pre class="markdown-block"><code>markdown content here</code></pre>
  `
}
```

### Step 2: Add Post Metadata to BLOG_POSTS_SEED

Add the post metadata to `BLOG_POSTS_SEED` in `app.py` for auto-seeding:

```python
{
    'slug': 'your-post-slug',
    'title': 'Your Post Title',
    'excerpt': 'A 1-2 sentence description for the blog list.',
    'author': 'Decision Records',
    'category': 'Documentation',
    'read_time': '5 min read',
    'image': '/assets/blog/your-image.svg',
    'meta_description': 'SEO description (150-160 characters).',
    'featured': False,
    'publish_date': datetime(2025, 1, 15, tzinfo=timezone.utc),
},
```

### Step 3: Create the Hero Image

Create an SVG image at `frontend/src/assets/blog/your-image.svg` following the Visual Content Standards.

### Step 4: Update Prerender Routes

Add the new blog post to `frontend/prerender-routes.txt`:

```
/blog/your-post-slug
```

### Step 5: Deploy

Commit and deploy. The app automatically seeds any missing blog posts on startup.

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Add blog post: Your Post Title"
./scripts/redeploy.sh patch
```

### Manual Script Reference (Optional)

For manual operations (publish/unpublish, delete, update metadata):

```bash
# List all blog posts
python scripts/manage_blog.py list

# Update a post
python scripts/manage_blog.py update --slug "post-slug" --title "New Title"

# Publish/unpublish
python scripts/manage_blog.py publish --slug "post-slug"
python scripts/manage_blog.py unpublish --slug "post-slug"

# Delete a post
python scripts/manage_blog.py delete --slug "post-slug"
```

---

## SEO & Meta Standards

### Title Tags
- Format: `[Article Title] | DecisionRecords`
- Length: 50-60 characters

### Meta Descriptions
- Length: 150-160 characters
- Include the core value proposition
- Written as a complete sentence

### H-Tag Structure
- One H1 per page (article title)
- H2 for major sections (3-5 per article)
- H3 sparingly for subsections

## Content Categories

Use consistent category labels:
- **Documentation** - General decision documentation practices
- **Startups** - Content for early-stage companies
- **Enterprise** - Content for larger organizations
- **Governance** - Decision governance and compliance
- **Teams** - Team collaboration and communication
- **Technical** - Architecture decisions, ADRs, technical debt

---

*Last updated: January 2025*
*Reference: Google Fonts readability research, NN/g glanceable typography guidelines*

Commit message:

Add VM migration infrastructure and blog copy button feature
VM Migration (ADR-004):
- Add ARM template for Azure B1s VM deployment (infra/azure-deploy-vm.json)
- Add systemd service file for container auto-restart (deployment/adr-app.service)
- Add one-time VM setup script (scripts/setup-vm.sh)
- Add VM deployment script (scripts/redeploy-vm.sh)
- Update infra/README.md with VM deployment documentation

Blog Improvements:
- Add copy-to-clipboard button for code and markdown blocks
- Fix ViewEncapsulation to apply styles to innerHTML content
- Update BLOG_CONTENT_GUIDELINES.md with copy button documentation

Bug Fix:
- Make psycopg2 import conditional for local SQLite development

BLOG_CONTENT_GUIDELINES.md, after:

 how# Content Guidelines for Decision Records

This document defines content creation standards for the Decision Records website. Follow these guidelines when creating blog posts, marketing pages, and educational content.

## Core Principle: Glanceable by Default

Most readers do not read entire articles. They scan to find details relevant to them or details the writer signals as important. Design all content for glanceability first, depth second.

## Typography Standards

### Headings (H2, H3)
- **Purpose**: Entry points for scanning readers
- **Style**: Sentence case (not all lowercase, not ALL CAPS for full headings)
- **Length**: 3-8 words, clear and specific
- **Font weight**: 600 (semi-bold) minimum
- **Spacing**: Generous whitespace above headings (2-2.5em margin-top)

### Body Text
- **Font size**: 1.05rem minimum (16.8px base)
- **Line height**: 1.7 ratio for comfortable reading
- **Line length**: 65-75 characters max (700px container)
- **Paragraph length**: 3-4 sentences maximum
- **Font family**: System sans-serif stack for optimal rendering

### Key Phrases & Takeaways
- Use **bold** for scannable key phrases within paragraphs
- Bold the most important 2-3 words that convey the paragraph's core message
- Readers scanning should be able to understand the gist from bold text alone

### Lists
- Prefer bulleted lists over dense paragraphs
- Each list item: one idea, one line when possible
- Use lists to break up any sequence of 3+ related items

## Content Structure

### Article Opening (First 2 Paragraphs)
- State the problem or question immediately
- No lengthy introductions or background
- Reader should know within 10 seconds if this article is relevant to them

### Section Design
- Each H2 section should be independently valuable
- A reader who jumps to any H2 should understand that section without reading prior content
- End sections with a clear takeaway or transition

### Visual Hierarchy for Scanning
```
H1: Article Title (one per page)
├── Lead paragraph (larger font, 1.2rem)
├── H2: Major Section
│   ├── Short paragraph with **key phrase** bolded
│   ├── Bullet list of supporting points
│   └── Transition sentence
├── H2: Next Section
│   └── ...
└── Conclusion with bold summary statement
```

### Pull Quotes / Blockquotes
- Use for single-sentence insights worth highlighting
- Should make sense out of context
- Style: left border, subtle background, italic

## Code & Markdown Formatting

Blog posts support three types of code formatting, each with distinct visual styling:

### Inline Code
Use for short references within text (file names, commands, variable names).

```html
<p>Run <code>claude mcp list</code> to verify the connection.</p>
<p>Add this to your <code>CLAUDE.md</code> file.</p>
```

**Styling**: Light blue background (#f1f5f9), blue text (#1e40af), rounded corners.

### Terminal/Command Blocks
Use for shell commands, CLI instructions, or any code the user runs in a terminal.

```html
<pre class="code-block"><code>claude mcp add decision-records https://decisionrecords.org/api/mcp \
  -t http -H "Authorization: Bearer YOUR_API_KEY"</code></pre>
```

**Styling**: Dark background (#1e293b), light text, "Terminal" label in top-right corner.

### Markdown Content Blocks
Use for copy-paste content intended for .md files (CLAUDE.md, README.md, etc.).

```html
<pre class="markdown-block"><code>## Architecture Decision Records (ADRs)

This project uses Decision Records to track architecture decisions.

### When to Create a Decision

- Making a significant technical choice
- Changing existing architecture
- Establishing team conventions</code></pre>
```

**Styling**: Light background (#f8fafc), blue left border, "CLAUDE.md" label in top-right corner.

### Copy-to-Clipboard Button

Both `code-block` and `markdown-block` elements automatically include a **copy button** that appears next to the label. This allows readers to copy code or markdown content with a single click.

**Behavior**:
- Button shows a copy icon (two overlapping rectangles)
- On hover, button becomes fully visible
- After clicking, icon changes to a green checkmark for 2 seconds
- Copies the text content inside the `<code>` element

**No additional markup required** - the copy button is automatically injected by the blog post component for all code blocks and markdown blocks.

### When to Use Each Type

| Content Type | Class | Example |
|-------------|-------|---------|
| File names, short commands | `<code>` (inline) | `CLAUDE.md`, `npm install` |
| Terminal commands to execute | `<pre class="code-block">` | Installation commands, CLI usage |
| Markdown to copy into a file | `<pre class="markdown-block">` | CLAUDE.md templates, README sections |
| Code snippets (JS, Python, etc.) | `<pre class="code-block">` | Function examples, API usage |

### Escaping Special Characters

In HTML content strings, escape:
- Backslashes: `\\` → `\\\\`
- Backticks inside markdown blocks: Use HTML entity or escape
- Quotes: Use opposite quote type or escape

## Glanceability Checklist

Before publishing any content, verify:

- [ ] Can a reader understand the main point by reading only the title and H2 headings?
- [ ] Are the most important phrases in each paragraph bolded?
- [ ] Is there a clear visual hierarchy (title > headings > body)?
- [ ] Are paragraphs short enough to not feel like walls of text?
- [ ] Would a 30-second scan give the reader value?

## Visual Content Standards

### Placeholder Images (SVG)
Create abstract, conceptual illustrations that:
- Use the brand color palette (#2563EB blue, slate grays #64748B, #94A3B8)
- Convey the article theme without being literal
- Include geometric shapes: rounded rectangles, circles, simple paths
- Suggest people/collaboration through abstract silhouettes
- Maintain clean, minimal aesthetic (no gradients, no heavy detail)

### Image Dimensions
- Blog list thumbnails: 800x500 (16:10 aspect ratio)
- Hero images: 800x400 or full-width responsive

### Color Palette for Illustrations
```
Primary:    #2563EB (blue)
Secondary:  #1E40AF (dark blue)
Accent:     #60A5FA (light blue)
Grays:      #64748B, #94A3B8, #CBD5E1, #E2E8F0
Background: #F8FAFC
Success:    #4ADE80, #16A34A
Warning:    #F59E0B, #FBBF24
Error:      #F87171, #DC2626
```

## Tone & Voice

### What We Sound Like
- **Direct**: State the point, then elaborate
- **Confident but not arrogant**: We have opinions backed by reasoning
- **Practical**: Focus on what readers can do, not abstract theory
- **Respectful of reader time**: Every sentence earns its place

### What We Avoid
- Marketing superlatives ("revolutionary", "game-changing")
- Filler phrases ("It's worth noting that...", "As you may know...")
- Excessive hedging ("might", "perhaps", "in some cases")
- Jargon without explanation

### Example Transformations

❌ "It's important to understand that decision documentation can potentially help teams in various ways."

✅ "**Decision documentation helps teams** communicate faster and onboard new members without meetings."

---

❌ "In many cases, organizations find that..."

✅ "Organizations lose decision context when..."

## Blog Post Template

```markdown
# [Clear, Specific Title as a Question or Statement]

[Lead paragraph - 2-3 sentences stating the core problem or insight. Larger font.]

## [First H2 - The Setup/Problem]

[2-3 short paragraphs with **key phrases bolded**]

## [Second H2 - The Insight]

[Explanation with bullet points where appropriate]

- Point one
- Point two
- Point three

## [Third H2 - The Practical Application]

[Actionable content - what can the reader do?]

## [Final H2 - Conclusion/Call to Action]

[One paragraph summary. **Bold the main takeaway.**]
```

## Adding a New Blog Post

Blog posts are automatically seeded to the database on app startup. Add posts to the source files and deploy—no manual scripts required.

### Step 1: Add Post Content to Angular Component

Add the post to the `posts` array in `frontend/src/app/components/blog/blog-post/blog-post.component.ts`:

```typescript
{
  slug: 'your-post-slug',
  title: 'Your Post Title',
  excerpt: 'A 1-2 sentence description for the blog list.',
  author: 'Decision Records',
  date: 'January 2025',
  readTime: '5 min read',
  image: '/assets/blog/your-image.svg',
  category: 'Documentation',
  metaDescription: 'SEO description (150-160 characters).',
  content: `
    <p class="lead">Lead paragraph with <strong>key insight</strong>.</p>

    <h2>Section Heading</h2>
    <p>Content with proper formatting...</p>

    <pre class="code-block"><code>terminal commands here</code></pre>

    <pre class="markdown-block"><code>markdown content here</code></pre>
  `
}
```

### Step 2: Add Post Metadata to BLOG_POSTS_SEED

Add the post metadata to `BLOG_POSTS_SEED` in `app.py` for auto-seeding:

```python
{
    'slug': 'your-post-slug',
    'title': 'Your Post Title',
    'excerpt': 'A 1-2 sentence description for the blog list.',
    'author': 'Decision Records',
    'category': 'Documentation',
    'read_time': '5 min read',
    'image': '/assets/blog/your-image.svg',
    'meta_description': 'SEO description (150-160 characters).',
    'featured': False,
    'publish_date': datetime(2025, 1, 15, tzinfo=timezone.utc),
},
```

### Step 3: Create the Hero Image

Create an SVG image at `frontend/src/assets/blog/your-image.svg` following the Visual Content Standards.

### Step 4: Update Prerender Routes

Add the new blog post to `frontend/prerender-routes.txt`:

```
/blog/your-post-slug
```

### Step 5: Deploy

Commit and deploy. The app automatically seeds any missing blog posts on startup.

```bash
git add .
git commit -m "Add blog post: Your Post Title"
./scripts/redeploy.sh patch
```

### Manual Script Reference (Optional)

For manual operations (publish/unpublish, delete, update metadata):

```bash
# List all blog posts
python scripts/manage_blog.py list

# Update a post
python scripts/manage_blog.py update --slug "post-slug" --title "New Title"

# Publish/unpublish
python scripts/manage_blog.py publish --slug "post-slug"
python scripts/manage_blog.py unpublish --slug "post-slug"

# Delete a post
python scripts/manage_blog.py delete --slug "post-slug"
```

---

## SEO & Meta Standards

### Title Tags
- Format: `[Article Title] | DecisionRecords`
- Length: 50-60 characters

### Meta Descriptions
- Length: 150-160 characters
- Include the core value proposition
- Written as a complete sentence

### H-Tag Structure
- One H1 per page (article title)
- H2 for major sections (3-5 per article)
- H3 sparingly for subsections

## Content Categories

Use consistent category labels:
- **Documentation** - General decision documentation practices
- **Startups** - Content for early-stage companies
- **Enterprise** - Content for larger organizations
- **Governance** - Decision governance and compliance
- **Teams** - Team collaboration and communication
- **Technical** - Architecture decisions, ADRs, technical debt

---

*Last updated: January 2025*
*Reference: Google Fonts readability research, NN/g glanceable typography guidelines*
